okay so this is a video game review for
Unreal Tournament 1999 for the PC this
game was released unsurprisingly in 1999
but in December a few days before the
other big Film Fest quake 3 arena which
I'll directly could compare it to in
this video and if you see little clips
of quake 3 then don't be surprised
because it's really hard to talk about
one without talking about the other it's
kind of like Simon & Garfunkel
they really do kind of go together and
personally as I said in my quake 3
review which is something I don't say
about law games I'm a pinning my colors
to the master in a sense because I said
that I was an unreal tournament kind of
guy and I think it holds through still
it's um I mean it's it's a great game I
think it does be quake 3 in most
respects but there are some respects of
quake 3 it's bare enough I mentioned
those as well if you don't already know
Unreal Tournament quake 3 were
first-person shooters with an emphasis
on high paced frantic multiplayer action
and mayhem and I never really always
played them for the bots and things
because I couldn't stand opponents of
differing abilities but and there is a
single-player and both you know they
nothing to write home about it's not
like Star Trek Voyager Elite Force where
there's a 50/50 kind of split between
single-player story and more eclair kind
of bot flying mayhem firstly the
graphics in Unreal Tournament are
fantastic and they still look good today
although since the release of uto 3 & 4
they look kind of dated but only because
those days that games have raised the
bar to such an unbelievable high I
prefer the models in UT 99 than that of
quake 3 and subsequent UT games also the
sound of both UT and quake 3 are about
even and both up to high standards while
there's music in UT and I used to
connect blast that through the speakers
that used to be pretty
and some decent talks quake3 had a great
announcer with phrases like humiliation
and when you kill someone with the basic
chainsaw
it's the weapons in you t bear in my
opinion looking and playing beth but
there are some exceptions the rocket
launcher for instance is much better and
quake i think and of course more carnage
and the very start a weapon in UT is
pretty useless but in quake it comes in
the form of very cool chainsaw already
mentioned my enjoyment of EU to you
basically is based on two maps which
I'll mention in a bit and this sniper
rifle if they did not have the sniper
rifle by this and those two maps them
gonna mention this game would go down a
point easily just based on that in terms
of game modes UT had best and most with
not only deathmatch Team Deathmatch and
capture the flag the kind of usual ones
an elimination which is kind of like a
system based on lives but also had
domination where you where you defend
key positions on a map which racks up
points for your team you'll so can I see
that a bit later and the team with the
most points wins or the first team to
100 or something and assault where two
sides take an offensive and defensive
positions of an invasion and decide that
defends the objective the longest wins
and you'll also see that as well I I
always felt that UT could have made more
of a salt domination with better maps
and the the objectives for assault were
always kind of I felt a bit baked and I
could never know if I was meant to be
shooting the thing or or just kind of
move next to the objective that was me
using the really useless Unreal
Tournament can a star weapon it's kind
of like it looks like a nice scuba tank
or something right it I could never kill
anyone with it I I've always prefer the
chainsaw person
but the bits where you fall off a high
cliffs and stuff or a Ivysaur or still
there just like in that quake 3 you
could customize the HUD the kind of
things by for some reason I don't think
you could customize how big your
crosshair was which I did in Unreal
Tournament 2004 which was quite nice one
nice as you can see I'm trying to kind
of I've got loads of different thoughts
going on in my head at once so I'll try
and make sense of it all this was my
favorite map of all this is quite simply
I think one of the greatest Maps ever
made and if they keep on having it in a
and Unreal Tournament game it wouldn't
be a bad thing it's just such a great
map it's a capture the flag map called
face and it really this and another one
called Morpheus which you'll which you
already saw Ashley it was the one where
there's all these buildings and stuff I
think these two maps literally made
Unreal Tournament like I can't say set
anymore Canepa powerfully than that
these two games really were so good
these maps are so good that it's hard to
kind of to think about Unreal Tournament
without them precise to play play these
ones so much especially with the sniper
rifle I loved just taking people's heads
off that thing
so in terms of maps I'd say actually
quake three has the better designed ones
although UT has some real classics as
just mentioned without those two and the
additional sniper rifle you know the you
two would probably drop a point in my
estimation on top of these were a bunch
of mutaters orbit week there are
tweakable options in Unreal Tournament
such as game speed so even though UT
felt a little bit slower than quake 3
you could actually increase the speed at
which she played at and low gravity and
other things that you could change in
the game which was made I think UT more
of a fuller package really and allows
the you to play the game the way you
want it
furthermore each weapon has a secondary
function unlike in quake 3 and there's a
similar health armor and damage pick
as well so this was just the the assault
mode and you know this is a pretty good
fun as well I felt they could have had
some better maps and things on this one
and as I said the the objectives screen
could have been the interface could have
been laid out a lot better so that you
just kind of quit quickly see what the
objectives were you know usually I felt
I had to play the one a few times before
I could actually do it through so in
conclusion of both UT and quake 3 arena
gave the world something special in
December 1999 and have left a large
footprint in FPS gaming both deserve
applause but my personal favorite is UT
which I feel better than this opponent
on most counts final thing I have to say
about UT and quake 3 is that they're
both fun something that most games fail
at so in conclusion this game gets an 8
out of 10 and that's me